

OXFORD UNIVERSITY LIBERAL ASSOCIATION TERMCARD MICHAELMAS TERM 2024



VICE PRESIDENT’S INTRODUCTION 
Thank you for picking up our term card, which has been put together magnificently by The President. As someone who felt wholly disenfranchised by politics for most of my time in sixth form, it has been refreshing to be able to have a safe and Liberal space to not only speak my mind, but make lasting like-minded connections. It has been a longstanding goal of ours to create an Association that not only encompasses a broad range of perspectives, but also that makes politics accessible to all.
Looking back at the summer General Election, paddle boarding, bungee jumping and various other stunts from Sir Ed Davey aside, it is fantastic to see the Liberal Democrats back on track across the country. It is no small feat achieving our greatest number of seats since 1923 and taking back our place as the third party. It provides a sure foundation to grow, to spread our identity and ideology to more of the public, and gives us more legitimacy to scrutinise the incumbent Labour government. Regarding Oxfordshire, the general election has yielded the best results for the Liberal Democrats ever, with a whopping 5/7 seats. On a more personal note, I am extremely proud to be represented by a Lib Dem MP in my home constituency of Wimbledon, having shed much of my energy campaigning in the early summer.
Even if you are not a staunch Lib Dem, I believe that you can benefit from the Oxford University Liberal Association. I cannot overemphasise how refreshing it is to hear voices from other political leanings attending and speaking at our events. It inspires healthy debate and allows everyone to gain additional perspectives on matters political. In fact, some of our most loyal members last academic year came from across the political spectrum. 
Whether at a Liquor and Liberalism, Cold Takes or even a speaker event, we are always eager to answer any questions you may have about the Association or engage in political discussion about any topic you find interesting. I’m very excited to meet everyone (members old and new) so I urge you to introduce, or reintroduce yourself to us at our Welcome Drinks on Friday Week 0!
Yours Sincerely,
Sebastian Lewis Evans,
The Vice President (Secretary), The Queen’s College




WELCOME DRINKS WITH LAYLA MORAN MP
Location to be confirmed on Instagram
Friday Week 0, 19.30-21.00
Featuring a mini Liquor and Liberalism
FREE!!












LIQUOR AND LIBERALISM
Every Wednesday 19.00-21.00
Swire Seminar Room, University College













SPEAKERS
Speaker: Right Honourable Sir Vince Cable
Background: Leader of the Liberal Democrats 2017-19
Date: Friday Week 2 17.00, with Oxford Speaks

Speaker: Alistair Carmichael MP
Background: Chair of the EFRA Select Committee
Date to be confirmed













DEBATES
Motion: ‘This Club supports a CANZUK Union’ 
Location: at the National Liberal Club
Date: Friday Week 3, travel details to follow

Title: Prime Minister’s Questions
Joint with: OUCA and OLC
Date: Friday Week 4
Location: Exeter Cohen Quad

Motion: ‘Britain should adopt a new electoral system’
Join with: Oxford Speaks
Date to be confirmed







LIBERAL LINKS
Event: Spirited Discussion at the University of Cambridge Liberal Association
Date: Friday Week 5, travel details to follow

Event: KCL and UCL Liberal Democrats at Liquor and Liberalism 
Date: Wednesday Week 2
Location: University College

Event: Warwick University Liberal Democrats at Liquor and Liberalism 
Date: Wednesday Week 6 
Location: University College









SOCIALS
Event: The Very Liberal Pub Quiz
Date to be confirmed

Event: President’s Drinks 
Special Guest: Councillor Steve Radford, Leader of the Liberal Party
Date: Tuesday Week 5

Event: OULA Karaoke
Date: Saturday Week 2 
Location: The Mad Hatter

Event: The Coalition Oxmas Social
Joint with: OUCA
Date: Friday Week 6
Location: University College






OTHER SOCIETIES
Event: Joint Welcome Drinks with Labour
Date: Monday Week 2

Event: OULA at Beer and Bickering
Date: Saturday Week 3

Event: Cold Takes with the Student Greens
Type of event: Ice Cream and Debating!
Date: Monday Week 3
More information: There will also be a stand-alone cold takes on Monday Week 7

Event: Liquor and Diplomacy
Type of event: Liquor and Liberalism with Diplomatic Society
Date: Wednesday Week 8






WRITE FOR OUR MAGAZINE
Email the President if you would like to contribute to our magazine ‘Freedom of the Press’.
The Second Edition will be released in Michaelmas 2024. 















PARTY ACTIVISM
Campaigning - Saturday Week 1 and 4 
With County Council Elections on the horizon, come along to help out the Oxfordshire Liberal Democrats, and forward the cause!! Completing at least two campaigning sessions is a requirement to stand for the Executive.

‘Get Involved’ Sessions run by our Political Officer Oliver Jones-Lyons, dates tbc 
MPs and Ex MEPs expected to attend

1. Get Involved in the Young Liberals 
The Young Liberals, is a core part of the party. Whether it’s setting policy (FYI: The only two policies at Autumn Conference not submitted by MPs were Young Liberals backed motions!), contributing to strategy on party committees or being at the centre of our election victories, the party does not run without young people. Come find out how the Young Liberals work and how you can get involved!

2. Get Involved in the Party 
It may seem daunting as a fresher joining the society fresh out of school, but there is no age at which you can’t get involved in the party. Whether it’s just helping your local party back home to win some more councillors, or its giving a speech at federal conference or even being elected to party office. Come find out all the rewarding avenues for involvement in the party!

3. Careers after the Party Panel 
Politics at any level has so many transferable skills, policy, public speaking campaigning all give you skills relevant at further levels of the party or outside it. Come hear from a panel of people who spent a little too much time at their university societies and ended up in careers from Law to Parliament (some of them as MPs!).












ACCESS AND WELFARE
* All our events this term should be hosted at fully accessible venues. 
* Accessible entrance guidance and image descriptions will be added to our social media. 
* We aim to set aside a quiet space at Liquor and Liberalism. 
* At all drinking events, the Access and Welfare Officer (or a specified replacement) will be discreetly contactable.
* There is never pressure to drink at our events, which is why we have a cheaper non-drinking price. Soft drinks and water will always be available. 
* Anything else, please ask - accessandwelfare@oxuniliberals.com









COLLEGE BRANCH SOCIETIES
Two Colleges have branch Societies, that host in-college events, usually with other College Societies. If you would like to get involved with your College Branch, please contact the Chair; or email the President president@oxuniliberals.com if your College doesn’t have one (yet!!).

The David Lloyd George Society (Univ)
The Chair is Richanne Davies
Her email is richanne.davies@univ.ox.ac.uk

Queen’s College Liberal Association
The Chair is Sebastian Evans
His email is vicepresident@oxuniliberals.com






GOVERNANCE
1. The Standing Orders can be found on the website oxuniliberals.com, or on request to the Returning Officer. These are the rules that govern the functioning of the Association. The Association is run by the Executive - The President, Vice President (Secretary) and Treasurer; supported by the rest of the Committee. 
2. Members are welcome to attend meetings of Open Council, before Liquor and Liberalism each week, Wednesday 18.30. Here you can pose questions to the Committee, propose motions and Standing Order Amendments. 
3. Elections for most positions will be held at the Termly General Meeting in Sixth Week. Nominations will open and close in Fifth Week. You only have to be a Party member to run for the Executive, not for the rest of the Committee.
4. For more information on the Standing Orders and the Governance of the Association please contact the Returning Officer on returningofficer@oxuniliberals.com .


THE PRESIDENT’S CONCLUSION
To study at Oxford is a privilege of the highest order. However, in my first year I learned that the true beauty of this place is not the academics, but everything else you can do outside of the tutorial room. With that in mind, I welcome you not just to the University, but to the Oxford University Liberal Association. First established in 1913, when the Liberal Party remained titans of British politics, we have an illustrious history - and long may it continue. 

When I restarted the Society in Trinity of last year, I had the simple goal of filling the centre ground in Oxford politics – of creating a space for people of all political persuasions and none to share ideas, debate and of course drink... 

This termcard is another proud achievement. I hope that you found something in here that inspired you to join. We strive always to be a place for everyone, and I sincerely hope you’ll consider being one of those people. Our Association has members from every political party and none - and that’s what makes it so special.

In a chaotic world, Liberal values have never mattered so much. We must remember that freedom matters, that the rules based world order matters, that democracy matters. Our election success demonstrated that people in this country believe in our vision, and I have every faith that the party will continue to go from strength to strength. Throughout this document, you would have seen pictures of prominent liberal politicians and thinkers - who can serve as inspiration to us all going forward. 

I must take this opportunity, as I did in Trinity, to extend my thanks to all the people who helped me, and the Association, to get here. To my Mother, for being my endless support and the reason for all my success. To my Father, for everything you’ve done, seen and unseen. To Zaara, I’m so proud of you. To Kasper, for bringing endless joy, and to my wider family, for always being there. 

To Liz, Julian and Richanne - I’ve now ensured that every one of you has a title in the Association! Thank you for indulging all my crazy plans, and facilitating my attempts to bring them to fruition. Thank you for coming to the events, pouring the drinks, running the elections and so much more. This Association would be nowhere without all three of you. 

To Shermar, for being the best mentor in Oxford I could ever have asked for. I will always appreciate your unwavering confidence in me, and I hope I’ve repaid it. To Louis Wilson, thank you for demonstrating to me what leadership looks like. To Franek Bednarski, for all your advice. And to so many other friends I don’t have space to name here. 

To NULS, a school that has stood for 400 years, and that made me what I am. To every teacher who helped me get to Oxford, and facilitated my political dreams - we all start somewhere, and for me it truly was the best start in life. In particular to Esme Major and Dr Christian Mallen, I don’t know where I’d be without you. 

To Julian, Felix, Will, Hayden, JL, Seb and Heather for being a fantastic team. In particular, Hayden- the branding and website has never looked so good! To Seb, for being a loyal right hand man. To Theo and Steve, for always bringing your wisdom and knowledge. To Lord Newby, thank you for coming on board and for everything you do for the society- we are all in your debt. And to Heather especially, this project is yours as much as it is mine and I will be forever grateful to you for sticking with me on this journey. To my grandfather Mohamed Ali Farook- my constant inspiration - you will always be ‘His Excellency to me. Finally, I dedicate this termcard to my grandmother Noorul Hinaya Farook, who passed away this summer. Without her passion for education, my parents likely wouldn’t be in this great country, and I wouldn’t be here. Thank you for everything. 

No thanks is ever complete without thanking God, for the successes of man come only by his will. I am deeply lucky, deeply blessed and deeply grateful. 

And to you reading this termcard, thank you and I hope to see you soon. Join us in becoming a small part of that great history of Liberal politics- from Gladstone to Clegg, Lloyd George to Davey, there is so much to be proud of and so much to look forward to. Come and debate the other parties with us, sing your heart out at Karaoke, enjoy some Liquor and of course, some Liberalism. 

Welcome to the Oxford University Liberal Association, we’re so excited to have you. 

Yours Liberally, 
Zagham Farhan,
Collegium Magnum Aulae Universitatis.






THE COMMITTEE
* The Honorary Chair: Rt Hon Lord Newby OBE PC MA (Oxon), St Catherine’s College. 
* The Senior Member: Cllr Stephen Goddard MA DPhil (Oxon), St John’s College. 
* The President Emeritus (MT MMXXII): Cllr Theodore Jupp BA (Oxon), St Peter’s College.

* The President: Zagham Farhan, University College
* The Vice President (Secretary): Sebastian Evans, The Queen’s College
* The Treasurer: Will Lawson, Mansfield College
* The Access and Welfare Officer: Heather Judge, The Queen’s College
* The Returning Officer: Julian Wang, University College
* The Director of Operations: Felix Mottram, St Edmund Hall
* The Mascot: Dewi the Dragon, University College
* The Outreach Officer: Hayden Williams, Oxford Brookes
* The Political Officer: Oliver Jones-Lyons, Christ Church

FIND OUT MORE
We offer both academic year and lifetime memberships. To become a member - visit the website oxuniliberals.com 

Instagram: @oxuniliberals 
Members Only Facebook Group ‘Oxford University Liberal Association’ 
Twitter: @oxunilibdems 

If you have further questions, you can visit the website or email the President - president@oxuniliberals.com 

Any accessibility or welfare enquiries should be directed to the Access and Welfare Officer - Heather Judge, accessandwelfare@oxuniliberals.com
THE END.
